Report.txt
Andy Wang

The goals of the adversary in this threat model are:
 1. obtaining nontrivial information about the content of communications
 3. tampering with communications
 2. impersonating a party

Put differently, the adversary's goal is to attack any one of the security
promises that we guarantee:
 1. confidentiality
 2. integrity
 3. authenticity
 4. forward secrecy
 5. ordering
We assume that the adversary is has network-level abilities, meaning that they
can see any communications through the network (e.g. the "channel" in this
assignment), and that they are able to modify these communications without
being detected. 

In the following section we list possible attacks that the adversary can
perform against each of these security promises, and we describe our defenses
against such attacks.

 1. Confidentiality
The adversary may attempt to compromise the confidentiality of a message by
simply reading any messages sent throughout the network. We defend against this
by using authenticated Diffie-Hellman key exchange to bootstrap a shared key,
and then encrypt all communications using this key. It is possible for an
adversary to learn information about a group of messages if the same encryption
key is reused multiple times, so to prevent this we use a random nonce each
time we use the shared key to generate an encryption key. MITM attacks can also
compromise confidentiality; we cover this in the authenticity section. 

 2. Integrity
The contents of a message can be corrupted by an adversary, even without them
knowing exactly what the contents of the message are. To detect these kinds of
attacks, we attach a MAC to each message, and drop any message which does not
match its MAC.

 3. Authenticity
The adversary may attempt to impersonate one or more parties by intercepting
and controlling communications during the key exchange bootstrapping process
via a man-in-the-middle (MITM) attack. To ensure authenticity, we require the
server to sign its Diffie-Hellman message with an RSA signature. This allows
the client to verify that the Diffie-Hellman message is indeed from the server.
Note that the same kind of authentication in the reverse direction is not
necessary, since once the client verifies the signature, both the client and
server will be able to agree on a shared private key; knowledge of the private
key will server as authentcation going forward.

 4. Forward Secrecy
If the adversary learns of the encryption key at any given moment, the
encryption keys for previous messages should not be compromised. To ensure that
this is the case, we encrypt messages such that each ciphertext depends on a
unique nonce, whose (expected) value is known by both the server and the
client.

 5. Ordering
The adversary can attack the integrity not of individual communications, but
the stream as a whole, by scrambling the order of messages. To protect against
this, we require both the client and server to keep track of the current
expected nonce for the next incoming/outgoing message. If the expected nonce
does not match the actual nonce, then the parties consider that to be an attack
and they close the channel.
